:imagesdir: ../assets/images

= Connecting to Red Hat

In this step, we’re going to connect and register our system to Red Hat
using the `+rhc+` tool. First, let’s talk a little bit about what
`+rhc+` does.

`+rhc connect+` will initiate the basic connection workflow, and prompt
you for a username and password. This username and password are your Red
Hat customer portal credentials, the same credentials that you would log
in to https://cloud.redhat.com[The Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console] or
https://access.rehdat.com/[The Red Hat Customer Portal] with. You can
also specify these credentials with the `+--username+` and
`+--password+` command line options for `+rhc+`, or you can use the
`+--activation-key+` command line argument to attach using an activation
key. An activation key is the best way to attach automatically, without
entering a password in clear text at the command line or stored in a
script.

We have an activation key stored as an environment variable in this
system, so we’ll connect this system using that key.

NOTE: When using an activation key, you also need to specify your
organization ID. You can create activation keys in the
https://access.redhat.com/management/activation_keys[Customer Portal].
The details page of your activation key once created, displays your
Organization ID.

[source,bash,run]
----
rhc connect --activation-key 12-5-22-instruqt --organization 12451665
----

You should get output similar to this.

.rhc connect output
image::rhc_connect_output.png[rhc connect output]

While connecting, rhc will tell you the hostname of the system you are
connecting, copy this down for future use.

You can also run the following command to get the hostname of your system.

[source,bash,run]
----
hostname
----

Connecting a system using `+rhc+` will accomplish a few things for you.
First, it connects your system to Red Hat Insights. Insights is a
service that you have access to simply because you are running RHEL. It
will also enable remote remediation of issues identified by Insights
with the proper add-on subscription. And lastly, if your organization
has Simple Content Access enabled, your system will be setup to receive
updates from Red Hat.

NOTE: If your organization does not have Simple Content Access
enabled, you will need to attach a subscription after connecting with
`+rhc+` using the `+subscription manager+` tool.

NOTE: If you are connecting a cloud system in a pay-as-you-go model,
no subscription is required, and rhc will not consume one.

In the next step, we’ll have a look at what we can do with Insights and
the Hybrid Cloud Console.
